A project in Asylum is just a git repository. On first run it walks you through opening one.
Point it at a repo folder. If that folder isn't a git repo yet, Asylum asks for explicit consent before it runs git init — it never touches your folders silently.
A built-in setup doctor checks that git, branches, worktrees, your agents, Bun, and Cargo are all in order, and tells you what's missing.
Once it's open, the project has a base branch — usually main — where merged winners will land. Per-task worktrees get created under the project, by default in dot-asylum slash worktrees.
Now let's pick our agents. Command-comma opens Settings, which is a real editor over your settings file.
That file lives under your config directory, at asylum slash settings dot json. It's JSON with comments, so you can annotate it freely.
Here's the key that matters: default underscore agents. These are the agents a task fans out to by default.
Ids come from the built-in catalog — claude-code, codex, opencode, gemini, aider, cursor-agent, and many more. I'll set two I have installed.
Save it, and it applies live — a watcher reloads the config, no restart. Leave the list empty instead and Asylum asks you which agents to use each time.
One common first snag: an agent that isn't actually installed. Asylum launches agents by program name, so if your shell can't find it, Asylum can't either. Check with the agent's own version command.
You can also let Asylum drive one agent from the CLI. From source that's cargo run, dash p, cli, dash dash, run, the agent id, and a prompt.
Watch the line it echoes — dollar sign, claude, dash p, your prompt. That's exactly what Asylum runs, no shell in between. If that program is missing, install the agent's CLI and retry.
The doctor in the app shows installed-versus-verified state for each configured agent too, so you're not guessing.
And if you need to tweak one agent — a wrapper program, extra arguments, or disabling it — that's the agents key. We'll cover overrides in the config episode.
Project open, agents chosen and verified. Next: our first fan-out.